[Concept Entry] Python Deque Deque #4452 #4511 (#4759)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/deque/deque.md

## Syntax

Initialize a deque with optional parameters `iterable` and `maxlen`.

```pseudo
d = deque(iterable=[], maxlen=None)

In this syntax, deque() creates a new deque object, which can be initialized with an optional iterable and a maximum length. The append() and appendleft() methods add items to the right and left ends, respectively.
The pop() and popleft() methods remove items from the corresponding ends. The rotate() method moves elements from one end to the other, effectively rotating the deque.

## Example

```py
from collections import deque

# Create a deque variable
numbers_deque = deque([1, 2, 3, 4, 5])

# Append a number to the right end
numbers_deque.append(6)

# Append a number to the left end
numbers_deque.appendleft(0)

# Pop a number from the right end
numbers_deque.pop()

# Pop a number from the left end
numbers_deque.popleft()

# Print the deque

> print(numbers_deque)

Reviewer: In this case, instead of using the `.append()`, `.appendleft()` and other methods, lets stick to showing different use cases of deque itself, you can change the iterables, example:

#Use different iterables to create deques
from collections import deque
a = deque((8,7,9,6))
print(a)

b = deque([45, 845, 65])
print(b)

c= deque(range(5,10))
print(c)

d = deque("wxyz")
print(d)

numbers = {"firstname": "any name", "lastname": "any", "age": 25}
e = deque(numbers.keys())
print(e)

f = deque(numbers.values())
print(f)

g = deque(numbers.items())
print(g)

These are just some examples, you can create your own.

Output:
deque([0, 1, 2, 3, 4])

```

Start by importing the deque class from the collections module. Then, create a deque variable called numbers_deque containing a list of numbers [1, 2, 3, 4, 5].

Append the number 6 to the right end of the deque using the append() method, and then append 0 to the left end using the appendleft() method.

Next, pop a number from the right end of the deque using the pop() method, and pop a number from the left end using the popleft() method.

> Finally, print the contents of the deque, which should be [0, 1, 2, 3, 4].

Reviewer: Based on your updated code, this will change. However, I would suggest having the explanation in the comments of the code itself.

## Equivalent Methods for Stacks and Queues

> - Stacks: To implement a stack using a deque, use the append() method to push items onto the stack and the pop() method to remove them.
> - Queues: To implement a queue, use the append() method to enqueue items at the back and the popleft() method to dequeue items from the front.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Stacks: A stack operates on the Last In, First Out (LIFO) principle, where pushing (adding an item) is done with `.append()` to the right end, and popping (removing the most recent item) is performed using `.pop()` from the right end.
- Queues: A queue, based on the First In, First Out (FIFO) principle, utilizes `.append()` at the right end for adding (enqueueing) and `.popleft()` from the left end for removing (dequeuing).
```
